# [Cd library management system](https://github.com/technophilic/CD-Library/)

## Features:
* Our project tries to reduce the work of a
  conventional CD library by automating
  most of the day to day tasks.

* It is extremely fast on the command line since it is written in c++

* This program is designed to reduce the
  time taken for calculation and space for
  storing data. It also provides periodic
  reports.
  
## Source :

* Source code can be found  [here](https://github.com/technophilic/CD-Library) .

## Project Structure :
<pre>
Root
|
|---date.cpp
|---final.cpp
|---master.dat
|---music.dat
|---users.dat
</pre>
## Usage :

### Class admin:
    * Profit (): This function handles the operations related to profit generated by the cd library. It collects three kinds of profit i.e.
        * Profit from registration
        * Profit from hiring CD’s
        * Profit from penalties paid by the customers(Late fee).
    * Showprofit (): This Function displays profit report when invoked from the admin function.
    * updatemaster (): This function updates the record of the master file which is associated with master.dat each time its profit gets updated.

### Class date:
This subclass defines a data type for dates to be
stored.

    * accept (): accepts the date.
    * display (): displays the date.
    * caze (): allows charachter to integer type casting

### Class store:
This class stores the details of the user.
Private members:

    * Expand (): This function enables ease of access of variables while coding validate () and acceptpart ().
    * invalid (): This function holds various error messages to be displayed during form validation.
    * validate (): This function does form validation during registration.
    * generate (): This function generates the user id for the user from the collected data.
    * passgen (): This function accepts the password from the user and encrypts it with ‘ * ’ for security purpose. Public members:
    * retname (): return name of user
    * retpin (): returns pin of the user for password verification
    * retuid (): return user id for login verification
    * accept (): accepts the user details during the registration.
    * display (): Displays the user details when the function is called.
    * acceptpart (): Displays the data that is already typed and asks the user for new data that was invalid during form validation.
    * diff (): Calculates difference between two dates and gives output in number of days.
    * edit (): This function allows users to edit their profile once logged in into their respective accounts.

### Class music:
    
This class stores the records of different CD’s including cd name , ratings etc.
    
    * accept (): accepts the details of the cd.
    * display (): displays the details of the cd.
    * obtain (): This function is to obtain the total number of users and total number of CD’s at the start of the program in background.
### Functions :

* mask (): This function is responsible for creating a
graphical user interface for search engine.
* delstring (): deletes a string from a two-dimensional
array of characters
* msave (): this function associates the objects of the class
music with the binary file “music.dat” and saves the
data in it.
* save (): this function associates the objects of the class
store with the binary file “users.dat” and saves the data
in it.
* rewrite (): using random access, this function rewrites
the user data in the binary file “users.dat” after editing
their info.
* search (): this is a dual purpose function and works
differently depending about the type of user who uses it
    * If the user is a customer, the search facilitates a simple user friendly graphical interface with which the user can browse through various available CD’s and can select one.
    * If the user is an admin the search engine facilitates a complex yet user friendly interface which enables the admin to batch delete CD titles from his CD library.
* existing (): this function generates the sub-main menu
once the user is logged in. This enables him to perform
various tasks like editing his profile, returning or
borrowing songs etc. This function returns the flow of
control to the main function.
* main (): This function generates the main menu which is
a very user friendly one , this is where the new users can
register and existing users or admins can login.
